# Open Street Map

3DMaps reads Open Street Map files in XML format generated by MapCreator. Routes consist of individual nodes (\<node> element) whose id numbers are listed in <way> elements. and tags are imported and used by 3DMaps.

The .xml files should should not have duplicate ids, and the MapCreator is meant to be written so as to prevent this from happening.

#### \<node> 

Individual coordinate points. The following attributes are mandatory: 

* id: unique OSM id
* lat: latitude of point in WGS-84
* lon: longitude of point in WGS-84 

Individual points are displayed as **Points of Interest** if they have the following two tags (displayed as key-value pairs).

* name: name of a Point of Interest.
* zmeuicon: icon used to display a Point of Interest.

		<node id="150943901" lat="35.9735954" lon="-112.1265569">
		  <tag k="name" v="Tusayan" />
		  <tag k="zmeuicon" v="city" />

#### \<way> 

Ways are collections of nodes. Depending on their tags, they can be treated either as routes, rivers or areas. Ways have a mandatory unique OSM id attribute.

The nodes belonging to the way are listed as child elements of the way element using the element \<nd>, with the attribute "ref" containing the id of the node.

	<way id="100000000298">
      <nd ref="273886087" />
	</way>

The following tags in way elements are used by 3DMaps:

* name: name of route
* 3dmapsrgb: a color represented as a string with three integers  between 0 and 255, separated with spaces. Can be used to define a color for routes or areas.
* zmeucolor: name of color. The above tag is now the preferred way to supply the color along with the way element.
* landuse: name of area type (i.e. "river", "meadow").
